In this lecture I'm going to show you how you can optimize your title tank for the search engines.
If you've got a WordPress site we're going to show you a really cool free plug in that will help you
get this right every single time.
I'll show you how to do it for an on wordpress site as well.
And we'll also show you how to do it for a local business because there's one key consideration you'll
have to remember to optimize a local business title time for search engines.
So what really is the title type.
Well it's essentially the title of the page and it's the most important indication that you can tell
Google what your web page is really about.
It's no coincidence that I've typed in home insurance here is a search on all of the pages in the search
results have come up with home insurance as a key word in the title.
So as you can probably guess it's really important in your title time to include the key word that you're
targeting that you think people will be typing into the search engines.
And you want to have that as close to the front of the title Teich as possible as you can see all of
these guys have them.
Another place you can see the title Time is when you open a separate time you can see cheap home insurance
here and that has the same title tied there.
This can be really good in terms of your users.
If there were multiple tabs open and they want to get back to your site you can really make sure that
they know what this size and buy so they can click back to it easily.
Now if you're a local business what's important to remember is that people in the search engines are
most likely after they type in the keyword is to put in a location so you can imagine say I live in
Dublin and I could type in dentist Dublin and you can see that the web pages that are coming up at the
top obviously our web pages have that keyword at the start of their title.
You can also see that they've included the neighborhood that they're in.
And also this is kind of the zip code here as well.
So I would if you're a local business I'd really encourage you to include as much of the information
in the title tag as well as you can capture all of those types of searches as well.
Dublin dentist dentist Portabello dentist the names you could have a chance to rank for all those terms
.
So as well as including your key word in the title time what you want to do is make sure that it's the
correct length and you want to keep it at 55 characters.
Otherwise Google is going to cut it off and it won't appear in the search results so you can see here
that this tile tag is too long and I'm not getting the full information.
You can see here this one is too long as well.
Could of this one as well.
So those guys could really maybe rework that title Teich and only show what is really important in the
55 characters.
You can see here this one is good.
This one's probably better because this kind of something enticing wittedness and these guys will in
the long so insurance you can count on this is probably one of the best things because it has that the
key word again and something you know kind of a value proposition so that you understand the theory
.
I want to show you how to put it into practice.
As I said for WordPress site is a really great plug in that could help you with this.
You can just come in to plug in new type in SEO and download this plug in here you can see that I've
already got it installed and that will come up then as a tab.
The sidebar here.
So now that you've got that installed and you want to create a new page or update an existing page what
you can do is scroll down to the post as you plug in here you can type in the key word that you're trying
to focus on.
So let's just imagine that I was trying to recreate page we were looking at and what it says here is
that the focus keyword does not appear in the page title and that's OK because we haven't written the
page title.
Yes.
So let's just take this page right here.
As an example I'm going to pop it in to the article here and it says now that the page title contains
the focus keyword.
However we can see that it's a little bit long here it's getting cut off.
So we're going to come up to this snippet at Ed. here.
And I'm just going to take this again and pop it in here.
So really what I'm taking at is this terrible last there so you could just pop that in there.
Now you can see that the page title is the correct length.
It also contains the focus keyword at the beginning which is considered to improve rankings.
So if you're using some other type of web site builders should be very straightforward to set the title
tight.
And if you're doing it in hate mail you can just come to title not in the title there and then it's
close brackets as per normal.
So just recapping what you've learnt in this length share and remember when you're optimizing the title
tag to make sure you include the key word include the key word at the start of the title TYG.
If you've got a local business make sure to put keyword plus location that can be city neighborhood
zip code etc..
Also make sure the title tag is not more than 55 five characters in length.
Otherwise they will be cut off and me as a searcher I won't get the full message.
If you've got a WordPress site I suggest that ios SEO plug in it will make sure you get it right every
single time.
And if you've got a nerd type Web site builder or hate mail you're coding in now it should be pretty
straightforward as well.
The final thing to remember is that a title tag is set for every single page on your website.
So make sure that for the different pages on your Web site that you're trying to rank for that show
you have a unique title tag telling Google what the page is about.
Maybe your contact page your testimonials page.
There won't be a need to optimize that too much and put for Daphne for content blog posts home page
.
The main page is in categories on your site.
You really want to make sure all of these title ties are unique